# Comparison-of-COVID19-other-Viral-Respiratory-Diseases
The main objective of this analysis is to find genetic drivers that affect the phenotype of respiratory diseases caused by viruses like Rhinovirus (common cold/flu) and contrast them with those of COVID19. \\
At beginning of the pandemic, some of the drugs being prescribed were the ones used for treating HIV and other auto-immune diseases even though there did not seem to be much connection. As research progressed, it was discovered that the immune system produced somewhat of a cytokine storm to overcompensate for the amount of infection became massive due to a delayed response. This seemed to play a huge role in the trajectory of the severity of disease in different individuals.\\
Given that COVID19 is respiratory disease, what makes it deadlier than any other well researched respiratory diseases? In this study I will try to answer this question by identifying genetic drivers of various respiratory diseases and comparing them with the genetic signatures of critical and non-critical COVID19 patients. I will also try to quantify the response in each of the diseases and use it to stratify patients according to disease severity. The ultimate goal is to construct a genetic signature, with some level of confidence, for each level of severity of COVID19 by associating each gene with a conditional probability.\\
Lastly, I will compare the list of genetic drivers with the gene targets of drugs that have been tested or are currently in clinical trials for treating COVID19. If time permits, I would also like to look at the pathways that these drivers are involved in and hopefully isolate a common sub-network of "impact".
